Rewrite `How_you_can_help!` (#14694)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Community/How_you_can_help!/en.md

# How you can help

osu! has a very vibrant community composed of people from all around the world, and anyone can be a part of the community in their own way! Below are just some of the ways you can help the community:

## Help out with the wiki

> The wiki is osu!'s official knowledge base that contains just about everything you might want to know about osu!. As such, the osu! wiki is always looking for people to keep its information up to date, add fresh information about almost anything related to osu!, translate articles to their native languages, or even just fix typos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The wiki is osu!'s official knowledge base that contains just about everything you might want to know about osu!. As such, the osu! wiki is always looking for people to keep its information up-to-date, add fresh information about almost anything related to osu!, translate articles to their native languages, or even just fix typos.
```

> If you want to learn more on how to propose changes to the osu! wiki, read the [osu! wiki contribution guide](/wiki/osu!_wiki/Contribution_guide). If you're looking for ways to help out, see [osu! wiki/Maintenance § Routines](/wiki/osu!_wiki/Maintenance#routines).

Reviewer 2: rather formal for an informal article

```suggestion
If you want to learn more on how to propose changes to the osu! wiki, read the [osu! wiki contribution guide](/wiki/osu!_wiki/Contribution_guide). If you're looking for ways to help out, see [the wiki's issue tracker](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/issues) or [this page on wiki maintenance](/wiki/osu!_wiki/Maintenance#routines).
```

## Help others improve their beatmaps

> In osu!, all beatmaps are made by members of the community. However, learning to make good beatmaps is a long process, and proper feedback is essential when doing so. Anyone can offer this feedback, including you! Giving feedback on a beatmap in order to improve the map or the mapper is called *modding*. If you're looking to start doing this, read about [how to mod](/wiki/Modding#how-to-mod), and read the [code of conduct for modding and mapping](/wiki/Rules/Code_of_conduct_for_modding_and_mapping). You might also want to read about [common mistakes new modders make](/wiki/Guides/Common_modding_mistakes) to avoid making the same mistakes yourself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In osu!, all beatmaps are made by members of the community. However, learning to make good beatmaps is a long process, and proper feedback is essential when doing so. Anyone can offer this feedback, including you! Giving feedback on a beatmap in order to improve the map or the mapper is called *modding*. If you're looking to start doing this, read about [how to mod](/wiki/Modding#how-to-mod) and make sure to check the [code of conduct for modding and mapping](/wiki/Rules/Code_of_conduct_for_modding_and_mapping). You might also want to read about [common mistakes new modders make](/wiki/Guides/Common_modding_mistakes) to avoid making similar mistakes yourself.
```

> If you are playing a map that is going for [Ranked](/wiki/Beatmap/Category#ranked) and notice something that could be improved about it, don't hesitate to give feedback! If you're looking to delve deeper into modding, consider setting up a modding queue in the [Modding Queues forum](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/60). Please read about [how the forum works](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/726725) before you do so.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are playing a map that is going for [Ranked](/wiki/Beatmap/Category#ranked) status and notice something that could be improved about it, don't hesitate to give feedback! If you're looking to delve deeper into modding, consider setting up a modding queue in the [Modding Queues forum](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/60). Please read about [how the forum works](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/726725) before you do so.
```

- Read the [rules](/wiki/Rules), [visual content considerations](/wiki/Rules/Visual_content_considerations), [song content rules](/wiki/Rules/Song_content_rules), and the [code of conduct for modding and mapping](/wiki/Rules/Code_of_conduct_for_modding_and_mapping). Knowing the rules in the first place helps you both understand when to report misbehaviour and prevent breaking the rules yourself.
- If you see someone you think is breaking the rules, [report them](/wiki/Reporting_bad_behaviour). A GMT member will respond to your report promptly.
- If your report has gone unanswered after several days, send a moderator a message and ask why. Sometimes, they will not have answered it because they just haven't gotten to it yet. Other times, the content you reported will have been deemed to be unproblematic. Take it as a chance to learn how the rules are applied in practice. 

> - If you see someone you think is cheating, [report the user](/wiki/Reporting_bad_behaviour#profile-page) or [their potentially cheated scores](/wiki/Reporting_bad_behaviour#score-listing) — **don't** mention their names in chat, forums or anywhere else on osu!, as this can encourage cheating. If you need further tools for analysis of a suspicious score, use a community-maintained replay analysis tool such as [Circleguard](https://github.com/circleguard/circleguard).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you see someone you think is cheating, [report the user](/wiki/Reporting_bad_behaviour#profile-page) or [their potentially cheated scores](/wiki/Reporting_bad_behaviour#score-listing) — **do not** mention their names in chat, forums or anywhere else on osu!, as this can encourage cheating. If you need further tools for analysis of a suspicious score, use a community-maintained replay analysis tool such as [Circleguard](https://github.com/circleguard/circleguard).
```
Feels good having more emphasis here.

> osu! has a team — the [Global Moderation Team](/wiki/People/Global_Moderation_Team) (GMT) — that is dedicated to keeping the game a safe place for everybody by monitoring the forums, chat and other parts of the website around the clock as well as responding to reports of misbehaviour. However, you can also help keep osu! safe and friendly!

Reviewer 2: many a "however"

```suggestion
osu! has a team — the [Global Moderation Team](/wiki/People/Global_Moderation_Team) (GMT) — that is dedicated to keeping the game a safe place for everybody by monitoring the forums, chat and other parts of the website around the clock as well as responding to reports of misbehaviour. That said, you can also help keep osu! safe and friendly!
```

> - Read the [rules](/wiki/Rules), [visual content considerations](/wiki/Rules/Visual_content_considerations), [song content rules](/wiki/Rules/Song_content_rules), and the [code of conduct for modding and mapping](/wiki/Rules/Code_of_conduct_for_modding_and_mapping). Even just keeping yourself out of trouble helps the GMT.

Reviewer 2: https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/ascw#serial-comma

```suggestion
- Read the [rules](/wiki/Rules), [visual content considerations](/wiki/Rules/Visual_content_considerations), [song content rules](/wiki/Rules/Song_content_rules) and the [code of conduct for modding and mapping](/wiki/Rules/Code_of_conduct_for_modding_and_mapping). Knowing the rules in the first place helps you both understand when to report misbehaviour and prevent breaking the rules yourself.
```

> - If you see someone you think is cheating, [report the user](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Reporting_bad_behaviour#profile-page) or [their potentially cheated scores](https://osu.ppy.sh/wiki/en/Reporting_bad_behaviour#score-listing) — **don't** mention their names in chat, forums or anywhere else on osu!, as this can encourage cheating. If you need further tools for analysis of a suspicious score, use a community-maintained replay analysis tool such as [Circleguard](https://github.com/circleguard/circleguard).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If you see someone you think is cheating, [report the user](/wiki/Reporting_bad_behaviour#profile-page) or [their potentially cheated scores](/wiki/Reporting_bad_behaviour#score-listing) — **don't** mention their names in chat, forums or anywhere else on osu!, as this can encourage cheating. If you need further tools for analysis of a suspicious score, use a community-maintained replay analysis tool such as [Circleguard](https://github.com/circleguard/circleguard).
```

Reviewer 3: error links

Author: whoops

- Look at the in-game chat and answer people's questions! This applies to the `#help` channel in particular. 
- Play multiplayer matches with others! If you want to ask people to join your multiplayer game, send a message in the `#lobby` channel.
- Follow and participate in the forums that spark your interest.

## Help tournaments and contests run smoothly

> The osu! community has a significant competitive tournament scene for players of all skill levels. However, these tournaments take a lot of time and effort to organise and run.<!-- TODO: Add way for newer users to involve themselves in contests, if any -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The osu! community has a significant competitive tournament scene for players of all skill levels. These tournaments often take a lot of time and effort to organise and run.<!-- TODO: Add way for newer users to involve themselves in contests, if any -->
```

> The osu! community has a significant competitive tournament scene for players of all skill levels. However, these tournaments take a lot of time and effort to organise and run.<!-- TODO: Add way for newer users to involve themselves in contests, if any -->

Reviewer 2: the way to help out in contests is the same as in tournaments. spectate, participate, staff, host

- If you're looking to play, look at the [Tournaments forum](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/55) and find a tournament you'd be eligible for. Make sure you understand the rules and can play for its entire duration, then sign yourself up!
- If you want to help out by staffing, look for a tournament. If you're new, it's recommended to pick one that's not badged (i.e. officially supported) or otherwise high-stakes. 

> - Give constructive criticism to the organisers of a tournament. Remember to be respectful when doing so.

Reviewer 2: the wording of this advice feels slightly misleading and should be more concrete. usually tournaments and contests have specific channels for feedback, like a `#mappool-feedback` channel or survey, so this should point people towards looking for these avenues if they have things to say about a tournament that they have watched/played/staffed

- If you notice a violation of the official support rules in an officially supported contest or tournament, please [report it to the relevant committee](https://tcomm.hivie.tn/reports/create).

> - **If you have accumulated significant experience staffing community events**, try organising and hosting your own tournament or contests!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **If you have accumulated significant experience staffing community events**, try organising and hosting your own tournament or contest!
```

## Help improve the future of osu!

> - If you have any ideas about how to improve the [ranking criteria](/wiki/Ranking_criteria), such as removing an outdated rule, write up a proposal, post it to [the Ranking Criteria forum](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/87), and discuss it with other community members.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you have any ideas about how to improve the [ranking criteria](/wiki/Ranking_criteria), such as removing an outdated rule, write up a proposal and post it to [the Ranking Criteria forum](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/87), then discuss it with other community members.
```

## Help improve the future of osu!

> - If you have any ideas about how to improve the [ranking criteria](/wiki/Ranking_criteria), such as removing an outdated rule, write up a proposal and post it to [the Ranking Criteria forum](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/87), then discuss it with other community members.

Reviewer: The translation process of the website and the game via Crowdin should be mentioned in this section as well I believe.

Author: Added a point.

> While this article cannot cover all the ways you can help the osu! community, even just playing the game can make osu! even more awesome!

Reviewer: How about moving this to the introductory paragraph? :thinking:

# How you can help!

osu! has a very vibrant community composed of people from all around the world, and anyone can be a part of the community in their own way! 

> While this article cannot cover all the ways you can help the osu! community, **even just playing the game can make osu! even more awesome**!

Reviewer 4: while I understand you wanted to make a small transition to the main section, IMO this sounds empty as a preface

Author: The point of this line is to clarify that the player's participation in the osu! community by playing solo is considered helpful for the game.

Reviewer 4: I understand written text, my opinion is that it works best as an afterword rather than the alternative provided before actual ways to help

Author: Moved to the end.

Below are just some of the ways you can help the community:

## Help out with the wiki

> The wiki is osu!'s official knowledge base that contains just about everything you might want to know about osu!. As such, the osu! wiki is always looking for people to keep its information up-to-date, add fresh information about almost anything related to osu!, translate articles to their native languages, or even just fix typos.

Reviewer 2: no no, dashes like this are added when modifying a noun

more info https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=MOS:HYPHEN

```suggestion
The wiki is osu!'s official knowledge base that contains just about everything you might want to know about osu!. As such, the osu! wiki is always looking for people to keep its information up to date, add fresh information about almost anything related to osu!, translate articles to their native languages, or even just fix typos.
```

Reviewer: I thought it's an [adjective](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/up-to-date) in this case.

Reviewer 2: - up-to-date information
- the information is up to date

this is the second case (think syntactically - noun modifiers/adjuncts appear to the left of the noun). the hyphenated adjective form is derived from the expression of something being "up to date", which i guess merriam-webster doesn't include (except [within other definitions](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/update) ig). [cambridge](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictionary/english/up-to-date) and [oxford](https://www.oxfordlearnersdictionaries.com/definition/english/up-to-date) do tho

If you want to learn more on how to propose changes to the osu! wiki, read the [osu! wiki contribution guide](/wiki/osu!_wiki/Contribution_guide). If you're looking for ways to help out, see [the wiki's issue tracker](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/issues) or [this page on wiki maintenance](/wiki/osu!_wiki/Maintenance#routines).

## Help others improve their beatmaps

> In osu!, all beatmaps are made by members of the community. However, learning to make good beatmaps is a long process, and proper feedback is essential when doing so. Anyone can offer this feedback, including you! Giving feedback on a beatmap in order to improve the map or the mapper is called *modding*. If you're looking to start doing this, read about [how to mod](/wiki/Modding#how-to-mod) and make sure to check the [code of conduct for modding and mapping](/wiki/Rules/Code_of_conduct_for_modding_and_mapping). You might also want to read about [common mistakes new modders make](/wiki/Guides/Common_modding_mistakes) to avoid making similar mistakes yourself.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In osu!, all beatmaps are made by members of the community. However, learning to make good beatmaps is a long process, and proper feedback is essential when doing so. The process of offering constructive feedback is called *modding*, and anyone, including you, can participate! For starters, learn [how to mod](/wiki/Modding#how-to-mod) and make sure to check the [code of conduct for modding and mapping](/wiki/Rules/Code_of_conduct_for_modding_and_mapping). You might also want to read about [common mistakes new modders make](/wiki/Guides/Common_modding_mistakes) to avoid making them yourself.
```
also, too many repetitions overall

Author: Done.

- If your report has gone unanswered after several days, send a moderator a message and ask why. Sometimes, they will not have answered it because they just haven't gotten to it yet. Other times, the content you reported will have been deemed to be unproblematic. Take it as a chance to learn how the rules are applied in practice. 
- If you see someone you think is cheating, [report the user](/wiki/Reporting_bad_behaviour#profile-page) or [their potentially cheated scores](/wiki/Reporting_bad_behaviour#score-listing) — **do not** mention their names in chat, forums or anywhere else on osu!, as this can encourage cheating. If you need further tools for analysis of a suspicious score, use a community-maintained replay analysis tool such as [Circleguard](https://github.com/circleguard/circleguard).
- If you think a map that is about to be Ranked has a questionable or inappropriate background, submit a report via [the BN Management website](https://bn.mappersguild.com/reports). You can make the difference between an inappropriate background making it to Ranked and it being stopped!

> - If you get silenced yourself, contact [accounts@ppy.sh](mailto:accounts@ppy.sh) and ask them for an explanation if you're at all unsure what the reason is. This can help you understand the rules better and thereby make it less likely that you get silenced again.

Reviewer 4: I think this is overdoing it. the goal of the article is to show the ropes, not to explain every possible set of rules and guidelines. VCC, SCR, and repeated links to the same article about reporting could be reduced.

(including circleguard is a good call though)

lastly, the part about being silenced doesn't fit the spirit of the article itself at large

Author: Simplified the section heavily.
